September 23rd, 2009. Tonight I found myself parked on a cul-de-sac in Tujunga, California, in a van I've lived out of for eight years. Staring at a house I couldn't recognize for a reason I couldn't remember. I did what I always do: trying to get my damn brain to work.

Played guitar. Open chords, stupid chords, first ones they teach. But in them, I hear everything. I hear my failures.

In 1962, I got her pregnant. Can't raise a daughter on five cents a word. I got a job.

Wrote manuals for appliances. Told myself, "At least I'm typing, keeping my fingers in the habit." But after long days, I didn't reach for the typewriter. I reached for the...

Damn false note. Then I realized they were all false notes. Can't play for shit. Not anymore. Better to do nothing. Sit in the shit. Why play with failing hands? I could just close my eyes. Play in my head.

When you commit yourself to doing nothing, wonderful things emerge.

IMG:148a2462-e40e-401f-92a2-ee274ee01fe9.png

"Can we do breakfast for dinner again? Like you, Isaac, I will start a petition to get them permanently swapped if that's what my lady wants. I just can't stop thinking about bacon. I was the worst father since my own one. But still, I helped to create you and your sister."

"Wait, Dad, there's that van again."
"What van?"

"I've seen that van parked there the last three nights. There's a guy in it. See, right there? Hey you! Leo, don't! We see you!"

You know, sure, I wanted to wave back at her. "Will you stop it?" But I couldn't let her see me. No, I didn't deserve to know her. Not like this. Still, I'd like to leave you something, Isaac.

One last dopey sci-fi tale for you to read when you're older, to make sure you don't make the same mistakes I did. See, back in 1977, when Rebecca was 7 years old,

IMG:67e8a3e4-4b72-4113-8c4d-ed601259e8b8.png

we didn't like using the terms like it back then, but I was depressed. If you looked at me, you'd never know it. Every morning I got up, drove into work.

Every evening I came home and put my daughter to bed.

But I felt like a failure. Like the person I truly was inside was dying a slow, painful death.

IMG:136952b6-723a-4370-b2de-03403b8235c2.png

So one night when they were sleeping, I got in the car, went to the nearest theater, and saw a film.

A film about a man who abandoned his family to make contact with a UFO. And it inspired me to do the same.

September 25th, 2009. I grew up in the Depression. Young people don't understand. We had nothing. Not five cents for matinees.

So I'd sneak in the back of the theater, up through the orchestra pit.

Saw a movie about a man who used his mind to make contact with an alien queen. Built himself a rocket ship, went to visit her. I made that my life's goal: to make contact with the unknown. All through the 80s, I tried to do it.

IMG:4aea152f-4388-451e-9c1b-d712b0a3461f.png

I talked my way into SETI, hoping they'd have answers. But after signing all the NDAs, all I found were a bunch of eggheads infighting over hypothetical nonsense. 30 years later, I find myself at a desk I don't remember, in a house I don't recognize. But the objects before me... I know them too well. They embarrass me.

IMG:4aea152f-4388-451e-9c1b-d712b0a3461f.png

My journal. They say my handwriting is illegible, but I can still read it. 

IMG:ae612407-6679-44a8-a542-a792402214b7.png

My dementia clock. Every time I look at it, I'm surprised by what it reads.

IMG:31e1ffd3-97b6-4613-ab5c-e1b1ace25726.png

My medications. My daughter, who I haven't seen for 15 years, is now insisting I take them. Unclear why, but she wants me alive.

IMG:99300f1c-c29f-46b1-83f9-5195b8378e67.png

My books. Looking at them, I feel a cocktail of pride and shame. 

IMG:562ca447-3d76-4bb0-9eb1-28b32cb9c20a.png

My lockbox. Inside is the meager sum of my entire literary output. The only thing I could offer my daughter in return for taking me in.

I can't even get the thing open. These damn hands.

Then I saw it. Corner of my eye. My guitar.

The fact is, I'm losing myself. Neither my body nor my mind entirely belong to me anymore.

My feet move in pathetic little shuffles. Each step a battle. Better not to play, I remembered. Instead, I just closed my eyes, played in my head. And as I did, I traveled through galaxies, heard the crackle of lightning across gas planet surfaces, ringing pulses of neutron stars, and far-off roars of supernovas. And then...

I heard other music. Far away at first, but coming closer. Another mind making music with mine. It was like we were jamming.

"Where were you just then, Dad? I've been trying to wake you for 10 minutes."
"Hi Grandpa."
I wanted to apologize to my daughter for everything.
"Can you put your guitar down? I need to give you your blood thinners."
"Maybe just leave him for a sec. I bet he's dreaming up some sci-fi story and we shouldn't break his heart."
I could understand them perfectly.
"Yes, I'm sure he was. I'm halfway through Chronicle."
"But I found Grandpa."

"It's actually all a simulation."
"Hey, don't give it away! Dad, I'm going to take the guitar now. Maybe let's just leave. Okay. He looks really peaceful."
"I have my own work to finish, Dad..."

Just as I lost my ability to communicate with other humans, I seemed to gain the ability to communicate with him. 

IMG:18250177-5307-428e-87d0-d04c062673f6.png

He told me on his planet he was a warlord. They had received a broadcast from our planet, some rich asshole inviting them to visit.

IMG:c6cf1b27-f0f7-496f-b022-cb549a411bde.png

From that broadcast, they had decided that Earthlings were too egocentric, too greedy to be proper stewards of their own planet. So they would come down and conquer.

But his conscience got the better of it. He wanted to know for himself before launching the attack.

I told him I couldn't argue with his people's assessment of it. That a couple of months ago, I would have agreed. But now I have met this family.
"Family?" he asked. Didn't even know what that was, if you could believe it. On his planet, everyone was family with everyone else because their minds were not bound to their bodies. In a blink, they could spark electricity.

With a swipe of their hands, they could move things in space.

And if they closed their eyes and focused, they could hear each other's thoughts.

This way, it was impossible to hide.

I suddenly began to laugh harder than I'd laughed since I was a kid sneaking into movies. I thought I had to run far away to meet my alien. But all it took was coming home.

December 21st, 2009.

I am writing this journal entry to keep myself awake. It's 6 a.m. and I'm waiting for my family to come down the stairs. I need their help with the most important task of my life.

Tonight I finally met my alien friend. We had agreed on a location: the abandoned parking lot where I used to sleep before my daughter took me in.

I flashed my brights.

Three times, as we had established.

And then...

He flashed back music.

He came down to meet me.

I had one night to show him why his warlike people should leave us humans alone. I told him I wanted to introduce him to my family, especially to...

My granddaughter. Her purity and her talent.

She was the perfect argument for why this messed up species is still worth something.

He told me he couldn't trust any human except for me. It was of the utmost importance that his existence on our planet never be discovered.

I'd have to prove my point some other way. So I took him for a drive.

To a drive-in movie place, where us humans gathered to collectively dream.

I had him close his eyes. Listen to the audience's thoughts as they got wrapped up in the story on the screen.

That's when us humans are at our most beautiful anyway. In our dreams, we are unable to hide.

As the sun began to rise, he told me it was time to take him back. But when we arrived at the parking lot...

There were men dressed in black loading something huge into a truck. His ship was being taken.

We had to stop the bastards, whoever they were.

I floored the gas fast as I could.

I came to on the side of the I-5, car filled with smoke.

When I looked behind me, he was gone.

I followed him into the desert.

But my legs were failing me.

Then I saw him disappearing into a cave. Inside, I found him on a rock.

He told me that without his ship he would eventually die. I asked, "How could I help him?"

He told me he could shut his body down like a frog in winter, transfer his mind into mine. Two beings in one, overlapping yet distinct. He told me that in the process he might forget who he is, lose himself in the transfer. But that wouldn't matter because I would remember, and together we could go get help.
I'm terrified though. What if I forget? I forget so much these days.

December 22nd, 2009.

Today I woke up on the sofa, my brain all muddled, more than usual. I knew something bad happened last night, but I couldn't remember what the hell it was. Outside the window, I could see my van: a smoking hunk. I've had my share of hangovers, but nothing like this. I'd written a journal entry...

But it was completely unintelligible to me.

I guess soon this one will be the same. How futile.

The doctor told us I'd likely suffered a traumatic brain injury, possible internal bleeding. Need to get the CT back.

She asked if I felt any different than usual.

I told her I didn't. But I was lying. See, there is this voice in my head, and it's saying the same damn thing over and over like a Buddhist mantra.

You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get... You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to get me home. You have to...

I don't know how to help this voice, but it certainly knows how to help me.

I can leave everything to them.

But I need to put the voice somewhere. Somewhere for safekeeping. I know just where to put it. The voice is watching me now as I write these sentences. I'll ask it for one last thing:

To please take care of my grandson while you share his body. You two need to watch over each other now.

"I have to go now. But don't worry, they will find you and they will take care of you. You're going to love them. And then when you're ready, they will get you home."
